settings.xml across workspaces (#1302)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/che-7/end-user-guide/proc_defining-maven-settings-xml-file-across-workspaces.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// using-maven-artifact-repositories

[id="proc_defining-maven-settings-xml-file-across-workspaces_{context}"]

> = Defining maven `settings.xml` file across workspaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Defining Maven `settings.xml` file across workspaces
```

> To specify your own `settings.xml` file across workspaces, use the Secret with `settings.xml` and define labels and annotation to mount it as a file (see link:{site-baseurl}che-7/mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container/#mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-into-a-workspace-container_mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container[Mounting a secret as a file into a workspace container]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify your own `settings.xml` file across workspaces, use the `Secret` kind in `settings.xml` and define labels and annotation to mount it as a file (see link:{site-baseurl}che-7/mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container/#mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-into-a-workspace-container_mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container[Mounting a secret as a file into a workspace container]).
```

Author: Settings.xml is content of Secret. IMO your suggestion is not technically correct.

Reviewer: I thought it referred to this line in in the yaml:
```
kind: Secret
```
If not, please, qualify 'Secret' in this context.

Reviewer 2: Let me try to rephrase then, because the current wording is IMHO a bit condensed:

To use your own `settings.xml` file across all your workspaces, you can create a `Secret` object (with a name of your choice) in the same namespace as the workspace. Put the contents of the required `settings.xml` in the data section of the `Secret` (possibly along with other files that should reside in the same directory as it). Labelling and annotating this `Secret` according to link:{site-baseurl}che-7/mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container/#mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-into-a-workspace-container_mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container[this guide] will make sure that the contents of the secret are mounted into the workspace pod. Note that you need to restart any previously running workspaces for them to use this secret.

 Does that sound a little bit clearer to you, @rkratky ?

Author: without your permission, I've copy-pasted it :) thanks @metlos

> To specify your own `settings.xml` file across workspaces, use the Secret with `settings.xml` and define labels and annotation to mount it as a file (see link:{site-baseurl}che-7/mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container/#mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-into-a-workspace-container_mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container[Mounting a secret as a file into a workspace container]).

Reviewer 3: >To specify your own `settings.xml` file across workspaces

May be here we can describe why it's might be needed and why it should be K8s secret and not ConfigMap

Author: > May be here we can describe why it's might be needed 

You mean why one might want to define own settings.xml ? I assume if someone find this doc, he know what he want's to achieve with maven, just don't know how to do it in Che.

> why it should be K8s secret and not ConfigMap

do we support mounting ConfigMap as a file ?

Reviewer 3: No,  I mean add the sentence that describes that the main purpose is to be able to define credentials in settings.xml

Author: you're right. I rewrote the doc with repo creds example

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: maven-settings-secret
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org
    app.kubernetes.io/component: workspace-secret
  annotations:
    che.eclipse.org/target-container: maven
    che.eclipse.org/mount-path: /home/user/.m2
    che.eclipse.org/mount-as: file
type: Opaque
stringData:
  settings.xml: |-

>     <settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"

Reviewer 3: should it be base64 encoded?

Author: Yes, that's another option. I would rather put here the link to k8s documentation to avoid sidetracking.

Reviewer 3: mm. I think that might be problematic to figure out all steps for users in case if he wants to add credentials that contains some special characters.  Can we get some concrete examples with concrete steps?

Author: yes, included in example

      xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
      xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                          https://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">
      ...
    </settings>
----

> In this case, you can't set whole `<home dir>/.m2` as a volume, because it will clash with Secret's `mount-path`. If you still want to persist local maven repository, use `containerPath: <home dir>/.m2/repository` or set different local repository path in your `settings.xml` and define volume in your devfile for this path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, you cannot set the whole `__<home-dir>__/.m2` as a volume because it would clash with the `mount-path`. To persist a local Maven repository, use `containerPath: __<home-dir>__/.m2/repository`, or set a different local repository path in your `settings.xml` and define a volume in your devfile for this path.
```

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
```

----
apiVersion: 1.0.0
metadata:
  name: MyDevfile
components:
  - type: dockerimage
    alias: maven
    image: quay.io/eclipse/che-java11-maven:nightly
    volumes:
    - name: m2-repository

>       containerPath: <home dir>/.m2/repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      containerPath: __<home-dir>__/.m2/repository
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// using-maven-artifact-repositories

[id="proc_defining-maven-settings-xml-file-across-workspaces_{context}"]
= Defining Maven `settings.xml` file across workspaces

> To specify your own `settings.xml` file across workspaces, use the Secret with `settings.xml` and define labels and annotation to mount it as a file (see link:{site-baseurl}che-7/mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container/#mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-into-a-workspace-container_mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container[Mounting a secret as a file into a workspace container]). You might want to do this to set your private credentials to maven repository (see Maven documentation link:https://maven.apache.org/settings.html#servers[Settings.xml#Servers]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify your own `settings.xml` file across workspaces, use the Secret with `settings.xml` and define labels and annotation to mount it as a file (see link:{site-baseurl}che-7/mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container/#mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-into-a-workspace-container_mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container[Mounting a secret as a file into a workspace container]).

This is required to set your private credentials to a Maven repository (see Maven documentation link:https://maven.apache.org/settings.html#servers[Settings.xml#Servers]).
```

To mount this `settings.xml`:

[source,xml]
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                              https://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">
  <servers>
    <server>
      <id>repository-id</id>
      <username>username</username>
      <password>password123</password>
    </server>
  </servers>
</settings>

> first convert it to base64:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure

. Convert `settings.xml` to base64:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

----
$ cat settings.xml | base64
----

> Copy the output to new file `secret.yaml`, that also defines needed annotations and labels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Copy the output to a new file, `secret.yaml`, which also defines needed annotations and labels:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: maven-settings-secret
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org
    app.kubernetes.io/component: workspace-secret
  annotations:
    che.eclipse.org/target-container: maven
    che.eclipse.org/mount-path: /home/user/.m2
    che.eclipse.org/mount-as: file
type: Opaque
data:
  settings.xml: 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
----

> Create this secret in your cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create this secret in your cluster:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

----
$ kubectl apply -f secret.yaml
----

> Start a new workspace. You will see `/home/user/.m2/settings.xml` with your original content in `maven` container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Start a new workspace. You will see `/home/user/.m2/settings.xml` with your original content in the `maven` container.
```

Reviewer 3: `them` or `the`?

Author: yes, I think it's a typo. Did you mean `the` @rkratky ?

Author: yes, I think it's a typo. Did you mean `the` @rkratky ?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

WARNING: In this case, you cannot set the whole `__<home-dir>__/.m2` as a volume because it would clash with the `mount-path`. To persist a local Maven repository, use `containerPath: __<home-dir>__/.m2/repository`, or set a different local repository path in your `settings.xml` and define a volume in your devfile for this path.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```
